---
layout: post
# headerstyle: ishtar
# headerstyle: alps
# headerstyle: bench
# headerstyle: door
# headerstyle: eagle
# headerstyle: flower
# headerstyle: hawk
# headerstyle: home
headerstyle: ishtar
# headerstyle: midgets
# headerstyle: mountain
# headerstyle: network
# headerstyle: plates
# headerstyle: presidencia
# headerstyle: statue
# headerstyle: unicorn
# headerstyle: yoda
# headerstyle: martenitsa
tags: email
date: 2014-06-25
title: Use email
author: Alex Lovell-Troy
---

## Team communication via email

Entrepreneurs frequently ask me about how to communicate with a growing team.
The question is usually phrased about tools and tool recommendations.  My gut
reaction to any question about adding new tools is to say, "No".  The time it
takes to acquire and learn a new communication tool is not insignificant and
unless it is particularly well suited to your team, you'll find yourself
trying to adapt to it instead of the other way around.  If you're going to have
to adapt and learn anyway, why not use the tools that you already have more
efficiently?

With a few company standards, a flood of email can be managed. And, getting
better with it internally will help your external communication as well.  Email
is definitely the most common communication method for dealing with clients and
customers.

## Use To:, Cc:, and Bcc: consistently

Email etiquette for at least the last 20 years has recommended:

* The To field is only for people from whom you expect a response.
* The Cc field is like FYI.  People may respond, but it is not expected.
* The Bcc field is for silently notifying a third party that a conversation is happening.
* Unless the response is a single word or very private, default to reply-all.


### An Example

Imagine you're sending around the notes that you took at a client meeting.
You'll want everyone who might be impacted by the results to be aware of it,
but you only need to get confirmation that everything has been recorded by the
other people in the meeting.

Your email might be addressed like this:
<pre>
To: alice, bob, carol, david 
Cc: elizabeth, frank, gerry,
Bcc: financialreporter
Subject: Can you confirm the notes from yesterday?

</pre>

Alice, Bob, Carol, and David will all see that it is addressed to them and
respond with any changes they think need to be made.  Elizabeth, Frank, and
Gerry can see that this is going on and have a chance to ask questions even
though they aren't the addressees.  Also, if they choose not to read the
message, no real value will be lost.  You'll send out the final notes later.
I've invented a financialreporter email address here for the Bcc field.
Imagine that you need to notify finance of every interaction with this client.
Finance isn't going to respond and more importantly, when anyone uses reply-all
to include everyone in the conversation, financialreporter isn't going to get
included.

## Summary

If everyone in your company agrees that no responses are necessary when
adressees are on the CC line, you can safely set your inbox not to display
messages with you in the CC field when you're trying to "live" in email.


